we're going to go live now to Rafa
Crossing this is the crossing between
Egypt and Gaza which has been blocked uh
since the 7th of October the UN
Secretary General Antonio gues is
speaking let's listen in it is
impossible to be
here and not to feel a broken
heart we are witnessing a paradox
Behind These
Walls we have 2 million
people that is suffering
enormously that is no water no food no
medicine no
fool that is under
Fire that needs everything to
survive on this side we have seen so
many trucks
loaded with water with fo with medicines
with
food exactly the same thing that I
needed on this side of the
wall so these trucks are not just
trucks they are a
Lifeline they are the difference between
life and death for so many people in
Gaza and to see them stuck here here
makes me be very clear what we need is
to make them move to make them move to
the other side of this wall to make them
move as quickly as possible and as many
as
possible
now recently it was announced by Israel
and by the United States that
humanitarian Aid would be allowed to
enter Gaza
and I know that there is also an
agreement between Egypt and Israel to
make it
possible but these announcements were
made with some conditions and some
restrictions and so we are now actively
engaging with all the
parties actively
engaging with Egypt with Israel with us
in order to make sure that we are able
to clarify those conditions that we are
able to limit those restrictions in
order to have as soon as possible these
trucks moving to where they are
needed we need we absolutely need to
have these tracks moving as quickly as
possible and as many as
necessary
but for that this must be a sustained
effort we are not looking for a one
Convoy to come we are looking for
convoys to be authorized in a meaningful
numbers
of trucks to go every day into Gaza to
provide enough support to the Gaza
people on the other
hand there are requirements of
verification but those verifications
need to be effective but at the same
time those verifications need to be
done in a way that is practical and in a
way that is
expedite on the other hand we are not in
a No Man's Land we are in the land of a
sovereign country Egypt and it's
essential to recognize the role of the
Egyptian institutions and namely of the
Egyptian red
crescent and finally for unra to be able
to distribute Aid on that side it's
necessary that unra is Foo and so we
need to have the guarantee that there
will be enough foel on the other side to
distribute Aid to the people in
need so it is very
clear that uh it is abs absolutely
essential to solve these problems
quickly and I'm hopeful they will be
solved quickly to make sure that there
is massive support humanitarian support
to the people of
Gaza unfortunately this is not a normal
humanitarian
operation it's an operation in a war
zone and that is the reason why I have
appaled for a humanitarian ceas
fire not that I consider that
humanitarian his fire is a precondition
for humanitarian delivery we don't want
to punish the Gaza people Twice first
because of the war and second because of
the lack of humanitarian aid but it is
clear that humanitarian C fire would
make uh things much easier and much
safer for
everybody and I want to end by
expressing my deep gratitudes to the
people and the government of Egypt Egypt
is today the fundamental pillar that
allows hope to exist on that side of the
Border hope that these trucks will move
to support them hope that the food Aid
and the medicines I've seen in a train
in a in a plane that has
landed will also go to the people that
needs it hope that there will be a
future
and hope that one day there will be
peace with a two State solution with
Palestinians and Israelis living in
peace in two states one side by the
other thank you very much thank you very
much